content/writings/growth/shuhari/tools.en.md, before:

---
title: "Tools"
publishDate: "2023-12-02"
lastmod: "2023-12-02"
weight: 2
---

The human mind is composed of feelings and thoughts.<br/>
Beyond the mind is the material world.<br/>
The mind wants the world to work the way the mind does.<br/>

> Tools are what we use to realize our thoughts.

Examples：

- our bodies

  - to move ourselves in the world
  - to interact with things / tools in the world

- human inventions

  - to apply science in everyday life and solve problems

    - e.g. mechanical systems
      - as an alternative way to interact with things / other tools in the world
    - e.g. electronics
      - to manipulate data
    - e.g. factories
      - to change the states of objects

- art tools

  - e.g. in photography (art form) we may use a digital camera (tool) to create
    a digital file (tool) which can be viewed on a computer (tool) to show what
    you photographed

- companies

  - to make money from money

- societies

  - to reallocate resources via political systems so that as many people as
    possible can survive
  - we all have different definitions of "how to ensure as many people as possible can survive"
    - e.g. Confucianism: everyone has their own duties
    - e.g. Elitism: the most capable should take over
    - e.g. Legalism: ruling the country by law
    - e.g. Welfarism: we are all equal
    - e.g. Anarchism: to let people to find their own paths from absolute freedom

---

We make tools to save time and effort on repetitive work.<br/>
We use tools from our predecessors to save time and effort on making tools.<br/>
Tools persist in the material world, carrying its creators' thoughts.<br/>
But the tools will wear out; the ideas it carries will become obsolete.<br/>
If you don't like something, just try to make it what you want it to be.<br/>

## Shuhari in Tools

- "Shu"：

  - to imitate the thought processes and details of excellent designers
  - to imitate craftsmanship of excellent craftsmen
  - to imitate the nature
  - to keep trying and gain experience

- "Ha"

  - to learn from mistakes and identify patterns
  - to research ways to improve the quality and efficiency

- "Ri"：

  - what you creates realize your vision

Commit message:

[MAJOR] put quotes into writings

content/writings/growth/shuhari/tools.en.md, after:

---
title: "Tools"
publishDate: "2023-12-02"
lastmod: "2023-12-17"
weight: 2
---

The human mind is composed of feelings and thoughts.<br/>
Beyond the mind is the material world.<br/>
The mind wants the world to work the way the mind does.<br/>

> Tools are what we use to realize our thoughts.

Examples：

- our bodies

  - to move ourselves in the world
  - to interact with things / tools in the world

- human inventions

  - to apply science in everyday life and solve problems

    - e.g. mechanical systems
      - as an alternative way to interact with things / other tools in the world
    - e.g. electronics
      - to manipulate data
    - e.g. factories
      - to change the states of objects

- art tools

  - e.g. in photography (art form) we may use a digital camera (tool) to create
    a digital file (tool) which can be viewed on a computer (tool) to show what
    you photographed

- companies

  - to make money from money

- societies

  - to reallocate resources via political systems so that as many people as
    possible can survive
  - we all have different definitions of "how to ensure as many people as possible can survive"
    - e.g. Confucianism: everyone has their own duties
    - e.g. Elitism: the most capable should take over
    - e.g. Legalism: ruling the country by law
    - e.g. Welfarism: we are all equal
    - e.g. Anarchism: to let people to find their own paths from absolute freedom

> How have we increased memory, thought, and reasoning?
>
> By the invention of external aids: It is things that make us smart.
>
> \- [Don Norman](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/10444097-how-have-we-increased-memory-thought-and-reasoning-by-the)

---

We make tools to save time and effort on repetitive work.<br/>
We use tools from our predecessors to save time and effort on making tools.<br/>
Tools persist in the material world, carrying its creators' thoughts.<br/>
But the tools will wear out; the ideas it carries will become obsolete.<br/>
If you don't like something, just try to make it what you want it to be.<br/>

> Life can be much broader, once you discover one simple fact:
>
> Everything around you that you call life was made up by people that were no
> smarter than you.
>
> \- [Steve Jobs](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/9737780-steve-jobs-when-you-grow-up-you-tend-to-get)

## Shuhari in Tools

- "Shu"：

  - to imitate the thought processes and details of excellent designers
  - to imitate craftsmanship of excellent craftsmen
  - to imitate the nature
  - to keep trying and gain experience

- "Ha"

  - to learn from mistakes and identify patterns
  - to research ways to improve the quality and efficiency

- "Ri"：

  - what you creates realize your vision

> First comes thought; then organization of that thought, into ideas and
> plans; then transformation of those plans into reality.
>
> The beginning, as you will observe, is in your imagination.
>
> \- [Napoleon Hill](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/458242-first-comes-thought-then-organization-of-that-thought-into-ideas)
